All right.
So hopefully by now we feel more comfortable navigating the user around our app using view router.
We have several ways to do so.
Of course, we can use the router link component to establish a fake hyperlink that will navigate the
user to a different route or path on our website.
And we can also force navigation in the JavaScript section or components by accessing the router property
on a component via this keyword and then invoking the push method on the router object.
So the next thing that I'd like to do is to head to our main nav component, and we'll notice that this
component still has a couple hyperlinks scattered throughout.
For example, this one right here on line 13 is the company name that appears in the top left corner
of our website.
So as a reminder, it is this thing right here and currently it is an actual hyperlink to the official
Google Web page, the careers web page.
And so I want to replace this to be a link to my own app's home page, the root route.
So of course whenever we use view router, we no longer want to have hyperlinks because we don't want
to force a page refresh or an actual browser navigation.
We want to simulate that navigation within our app.
So the first thing I'm going to do here is replace this anchor tag with a router link component.
The router link is views the view router component equivalent of a hyperlink.
So the user has the same impression of navigation, but we navigate them within the confines and boundaries
of our view app.
So right here our place this a tag with a router link and here I'm going to close it off with the closing
tag.
So slash router link as well.
There's a couple of things that I'd like to change here.
First up, we are interpolating the value of the company data property right here.
If I scroll down to my component setup, we can see that is a string of bubble careers.
And this was purely done in the beginning of the course to introduce you to the concept of interpolating
data.
And really the reason you would want to do this is if your data is changing.
In this case, since bubble careers is hard coded and there's no way for it to change, I don't see
any real reason to have it in our data.
I can just imagine ourselves putting it directly in line in our tunnel and cleaning up some of our data.
So let's go with that approach.
I'm going to remove the company data property right here and right here where we used to interpolate
the value of the company data property.
I'm just going to hard code Bobo careers and you of course, can write whatever company name you would
like to have for your career site.
All right.
The other thing that we're doing here is we're binding, using V bind to the ref attribute and we no
longer have an attribute on our router link component.
What we do have is a two prop, so let's replace this with the two prop.
And then of course one argument that we can provide to the two prop is a string representing the URL
that we want to go to.
And in this case, again, instead of hard coding the URL to come from data, I'm just going to write
a string in line.
I'm just going to do the literal forward slash, which is the root, root or the home page.
And what that allows us to do is to get rid of the URL property below as well.
So right here we're going to get rid of the URL property that provided the link that would go to Google.
We're just going to do everything in line for now, I think.
I think we can still keep the menu items array that we are using for V4 because I think the syntax is
a little bit cleaner than copying and pasting all of those list items that represent our menu items,
but we might come back to that later time for now.
I think this is okay and we still need is logged in because that is a piece of data that is changing
as the user logs into our site by pressing the action button.
So this feels good to me.
So if I scroll back up.
We have this.
And as far as the class right here, that is totally fine.
We can apply the class attribute to view components as we know, because what Vue does is it takes these
classes and it applies it to the root element inside that component.
So we don't know how the router link component is built, but inside you can imagine some kind of root
element like a div.
And what this does is it just takes these top level classes and it applies it to that root element,
whatever it is, right?
So we are not technically applying the classes to the view component, it just is that visual impression
we are actually applying, applying them to an H2 element under the hood.
We just don't know what that element happens to be because we don't know the exact implementation of
root or link.
All right.
So with that, we can head to our browser.
And let's head to our job.
Slash results page.
In fact, let me refresh, because it looks like my menu disappeared.
There we go.
That might just be a problem from compilation.
So here is my jobs slash results page.
And now you'll notice we have the exact same style right here.
But when I click this, we're not going to force the page refresh.
We're going to use that router link component to simulate going to the slash root, which of course
will trigger the router view component to render something differently.
And that's going to lead us to our home page.
So that works as expected.
We've replaced that hyperlink in our app.
There's one more thing I'd like to show you in this lesson, and it is an alternate form of or an alternate
argument, rather, that we can use for the two prop.
This is one option.
But what we what we can also provide is very similar arguments to what we provided the push method in
the previous lessons.
So you may remember that we can also provide a object to the push method and in that object we can have
a property like name and that name allows us to link to an established route name from our router file.
So if I go to a router index that yes.
As a reminder, we gave all of our routes a name and we called our slash route a route route.
We call that the home route.
So I can provide the name property here and make this equal the home route.
And that allows us to avoid knowing the details about what this actual URL is.
We're just going to let view router figure that out based on our router configuration.
However, the key takeaway if we use this syntax is we're now providing an object, right?
And an object is not a an argument that we can simply provide as a string into the two prop, because
when we provide a regular string to a prop, it's going to think that this is actually a string rather
than a JavaScript object with a name property.
The way we have to enable that dynamism is by using the V bind syntax.
So if we provide this form of argument to the two prop, we do need to bind using the colon syntax in
front of it.
This is equivalent to V bind by the way.
So either that or that.
And if the argument is not a plain string, if it is an object, we have to bind.
And you can immediately see in this code how it recognizes that now we have an object rather than a
string.
And so it shows us the property and the value for that property.
And if I head back to my browser and I head back to Job's results and click on this again, you can
see everything still works.
So you're more than welcome to use either approach.
You can either provide a string or an object here with a configuration setting.
I believe the other property we explored here is Path, which also works, but these are different ways
and different arguments that we can provide to the two prop of the router like component to enable navigation.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.